Welcome back everyone to finish off our solution lectures.
We're going to now evaluate the model that we trained in the previous lecture.
Let's get started.
OK.
We finish training our model Optionally you can go ahead and save your model the code to do them is
just simply saying from tensor flow that Caris thought models import load underscore model and that
will allow you to actually load it later but to save it you technically don't need to do that import.
You can say model that save and then choose any string code.
So my favorite model dot H five and then save that.
And if you wanted to load it up again you simply run Load model.
So this is totally optional you don't need to actually save your model here if you don't want to use
it again.
So let's focus on evaluating the model performance recall during training.
We passed in both our validation set and our training set.
Let's go ahead and plot those out.
So we're going to say model history thought history and that returns back.
This dictionary of the losses which we can then easily convert to a panda's data frame and then we'll
set that to losses run that and let's go ahead and plot these out.
So we'll say losses plot.
However if we take a look at losses right now we have loss and validation loss.
So recall this loss is the training loss this validation loss is the loss on our test set.
The x test and the White test.
So hopefully when we run this we get to see similar behavior.
And it looks like our training loss and validation loss were both decreasing but eventually we were
really improving that much on the validation.
Something that might be interesting to explore here is to add in an early stopping callback and just
train for a lot more epochs and see if this would have continued to decline or photos started increasing.
Let's go ahead and continue to next task which was create predictions from the X test set and display
classification import and confusion matrix for that test set.
What we can do that is from S.K. learn that metrics will go and import a classification report and a
confusion matrix we can grab our predictions by simply grabbing our model and running predict classes
and then you just need a pass in some features like x test and that returns back predictions in which
case once that's done we can print out a classification report that takes in if you take a look at it
blips not prints but the actual classification report that takes in white true versus Y predictions.
So we'll pass in y true versus our predictions.
And because the classification task recall we're going to have different books this should be why test
and as I was saying because of the classification task there's going to be different metrics we can
evaluate this by.
There's going to be an accuracy metric a precision metric recall an F1 score.
So accuracy that's just the actual percent that we got right.
So if you did the same ran the split we did the exact same network we're looking at around 90 percent
accuracy but recall that in the very beginning of this notebook so all the way at the top what we did
is we first analyzed the actual label itself and recall that it's an imbalanced labels.
There is a lot more fully paid than there are charged off loans.
In effect if we were to take a look at a model that simply recalled back any loan as being fully paid
it would actually still be pretty accurate.
So we'll scroll down here and just to kind of show you what I mean by that.
If we take a look at our original data frame and we have whether or not our loan was repaid or we're
going to do is let's do some value counts here and we have this many loan repaid so let's go ahead and
take that and divide it by the actual length of that data frame and run that.
So notice here that what this is indicating is that 80 percent of my points were already being predicted
as loan repaid which means if I created a very simple model that simply said any loan will be repaid
I would be 80 percent accurate.
So don't be fooled by a model that returns back 80 percent accuracy because by default a model that
just always reports back to the loan will be repaid itself will be 80 percent accurate more or less
on this actual test data set.
So we should be looking at kind of a bottom threshold of 80 percent which means our 89 percent accuracy
here is OK but it's not absolutely fantastic because of our imbalanced data set.
As mentioned in the machine learning metric lectures the actual metrics who want to take a look at our
precision recall and F1 score and it looks like depending on the class you perform a little worse.
So the true class we should be looking at here is the one that's lower representation which is zero.
So now we have a lot less instances of zero.
We're pretty good on the precision here but really where we suffer is the recall.
And we can get an F1 score which recalls the harmonic mean between precision and recall.
So really the true notification of whether or not this model is doing well is this f1 score on this
0 class.
So what I would encourage you to do is see if you can play around the model hyper parameters maybe adding
more layers add in more neurons maybe play around the dropout rate to see if you can improve off a base
zero point six 1 f1 score.
OK so is this good or bad.
Well that really depends on the entire context of the situation whether we have a model that already
at times to predict this and what's its f1 score.
So we need a lot more context to decide whether or not this recall in this f1 score are good enough.
Well we can't say right off the bat is that this accuracy is better than just kind of a default guess
which would be 80 percent.
So this model is definitely better than just kind of a random guess or a straight guess.
So we are performing much better.
A random guess would get 50 percent accuracy a straight guess of always being repaid with get 80 percent
accuracy in our model is getting 89 percent accuracy.
So we are performing better than both a random guess and a straight loan repaid return.
OK so overall we can see that our model is learning something from this dataset and then we can see
the confusion matrix as well if we're interested in that we can perform y tests versus predictions run
that and we get to see this confusion matrix.
And again you can see or mis classifying a lot of those zero points which causes this kind of low recall
OK so given the last task given the customer below would you offer this person alone.
Well we're going to do here is basically use our model to run on a single person.
So we'll simply import random seed set it to 1 to 1 and then we'll create a random index using this
then off this random index we're going to grab some new customer and then display their actual features
so go ahead and run this.
And if you ran everything the same as you get the same random customer that we got.
And you can play off the seed if you want a different random customer.
And the way would actually predict off this customer is first we have to make sure that this is no longer
a the series but actually a number higher.
So that's kind of the hardest part is making sure your data is in the right shape.
So a new customer right now it's a panda series.
What I need to do is grab the values which returns back these feature values and then after that I need
to reshape this to be in the same shape of the training data that the model was trained on which in
our case is won by 78 and that essentially adds a little extra bracket call there which is what our
model expects and then we're going to go ahead and make sure that we scale this data in order to predict
the correct class because recall our model learned on scaled data.
So we will take our scalar.
And we will transform this data and set that to our new customer.
So say new customer run that go ahead and check out our new customer.
So now we have a scaled version of this new customer and let's pass this into the models say model predict
classes on this new customer run that in our model predicts that it was 8 1.
So now let's actually check that this person actually end up paying back their loan.
So we're going to do here is essentially run this same command here but we won't actually drop it.
We just want that actual column there run it.
And if we look at the very bottom or we can just call it ourselves.
Want to see whether or not the loan was repaid and it happened to be repaid.
So it looks like in this particular case we got it right.
All right.
So that's it for this project.
Notice it was a very large project but a big part of it was actually feature engineering and understanding
the data.
Usually when it comes to actually training the model itself that's a much simpler task because the model
is doing most of the work.
All you need to decide on is how many layers and how many neurons per layer.
So there's lots of options to play around with here.
And I would encourage you to play off your own models and see if you can be our performance that we've
shown here with this simpler model.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.